Notes.mdx, before:

## CanvasPro AI - Notes

## Day 1

### 1. Introduction and Project Setup

- `npx create-next-app@latest`
- install libraries
  - `shadcn/ui`
    - https://ui.shadcn.com/
- to run: `npm run dev`

### 2. Understanding the NextJS project structure

- https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started/project-structure
- avoid middleware.ts if possible because it runs only on edge but we want to be able to deploy our app to any server
- Route Groups:
  - https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/route-groups
- Private folders:
  - https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/colocation#private-folders

### 3. Fabric.js setup

- http://fabricjs.com/
- https://github.com/fabricjs/fabric.js
- http://fabricjs.com/docs/
- https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#compiling
- Create Editor page, component and useEditor.ts hook
- why we use canvasContainerRef
  - Canvas resizing is difficult hence we are using a div as canvasContainerRef and we will use a resize observer to see if canvasContainerRef is resized and use the width and height from there to set width and height of canvas
- `npm install fabric@5.3.0-browser --save` and `npm install -D @types/fabric@5.3.0`
  - the browser version is important because it is the only version that will not use node-canvas as dependency

### 4. Make responsive canvas using Resize Observer and add auto zoom

- 🚨 TODO: Fix the canvas flickering issue on resiving

## Day 2

### 5. Deploy to Vercel

### 6. Editor page layout setup

- add components: Navbar, Sidebar, Toolbar, and Footer

### 7. Fix the canvas auto zoom issue

### 8. Improve Navbar component

- 🚨 TODO: Remove one icon library. Currently we have both lucide and react icons
- 🚨 TODO: Add tooltip for undo, redo and autosave

### 9. Sidebar component

### 10. Select tool on navbar - selected state

## Day 3

### 11. Editor Element Tool - Sidebar

### 12. Add Shapes to Canvas

### 13. Add support for Pentagon and Hexagon, ScrollBar support for ScrollArea

## Day 4

### 14. Add support for fill color

- 🚨 TODO: Fix the color picker related warnings in console

### 15. Fix active object fill color and manage color sidebar visibility

### 16. Add support for stroke color

### 17. Add stroke width tool

### 18. Add support for stroke options

### 19. Layering objects on canvas

### 20. Transparency for object

### 21. Text Sidebar - first draft

## Day 5

### 22. Adjust font sizes for text buttons, toolbar tool visibility based on selected object

### 23. Font family

### 24. Font weight

### 25. Font style - normal, italic

### 26. Underline, linethough, uppercase

### 27. Text alignment - left, center, right, justify

### 28. Font Size

### 29. Delete object

### 30. Hono setup for building APIs

- https://hono.dev/docs/getting-started/basic
- NextJS: https://hono.dev/docs/getting-started/vercel
- Does not use file and folder structure like NextJS
  - hence more scalable than NextJS
  - It's fast
  - It integrates well with NextJS
  - Runs on several runtime environments
  - we will learn more about rpc routes

Commit message:

feat: 31. Exploring Hono more in detail and building Photos support with react query, unsplash API

Notes.mdx, after:

## CanvasPro AI - Notes

## Day 1

### 1. Introduction and Project Setup

- `npx create-next-app@latest`
- install libraries
  - `shadcn/ui`
    - https://ui.shadcn.com/
- to run: `npm run dev`

### 2. Understanding the NextJS project structure

- https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started/project-structure
- avoid middleware.ts if possible because it runs only on edge but we want to be able to deploy our app to any server
- Route Groups:
  - https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/route-groups
- Private folders:
  - https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/colocation#private-folders

### 3. Fabric.js setup

- http://fabricjs.com/
- https://github.com/fabricjs/fabric.js
- http://fabricjs.com/docs/
- https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas#compiling
- Create Editor page, component and useEditor.ts hook
- why we use canvasContainerRef
  - Canvas resizing is difficult hence we are using a div as canvasContainerRef and we will use a resize observer to see if canvasContainerRef is resized and use the width and height from there to set width and height of canvas
- `npm install fabric@5.3.0-browser --save` and `npm install -D @types/fabric@5.3.0`
  - the browser version is important because it is the only version that will not use node-canvas as dependency

### 4. Make responsive canvas using Resize Observer and add auto zoom

- 🚨 TODO: Fix the canvas flickering issue on resiving

## Day 2

### 5. Deploy to Vercel

### 6. Editor page layout setup

- add components: Navbar, Sidebar, Toolbar, and Footer

### 7. Fix the canvas auto zoom issue

### 8. Improve Navbar component

- 🚨 TODO: Remove one icon library. Currently we have both lucide and react icons
- 🚨 TODO: Add tooltip for undo, redo and autosave

### 9. Sidebar component

### 10. Select tool on navbar - selected state

## Day 3

### 11. Editor Element Tool - Sidebar

### 12. Add Shapes to Canvas

### 13. Add support for Pentagon and Hexagon, ScrollBar support for ScrollArea

## Day 4

### 14. Add support for fill color

- 🚨 TODO: Fix the color picker related warnings in console

### 15. Fix active object fill color and manage color sidebar visibility

### 16. Add support for stroke color

### 17. Add stroke width tool

### 18. Add support for stroke options

### 19. Layering objects on canvas

### 20. Transparency for object

### 21. Text Sidebar - first draft

## Day 5

### 22. Adjust font sizes for text buttons, toolbar tool visibility based on selected object

### 23. Font family

### 24. Font weight

### 25. Font style - normal, italic

### 26. Underline, linethough, uppercase

### 27. Text alignment - left, center, right, justify

### 28. Font Size

### 29. Delete object

### 30. Hono setup for building APIs

- https://hono.dev/docs/getting-started/basic
- NextJS: https://hono.dev/docs/getting-started/vercel
- Does not use file and folder structure like NextJS
  - hence more scalable than NextJS
  - It's fast
  - It integrates well with NextJS
  - Runs on several runtime environments
  - we will learn more about RPC routes

## Day 6

### 31. Exploring Hono more in detail and building Photos support with react query, unsplash API

- https://hono.dev/docs/api/routing
- https://hono.dev/docs/guides/best-practices
- https://hono.dev/docs/guides/best-practices#building-a-larger-application
- https://hono.dev/docs/guides/validation
  - hono has thin minimial validation. so use a third party library for validation like zod
- https://hono.dev/docs/guides/rpc
  - don't forget to chain your rpc routes
    - https://hono.dev/docs/guides/rpc#using-rpc-with-larger-applications
  - also declare them in a separate variable as `const route =...`
- https://hono.dev/docs/guides/rpc#client
- React Query setup with Nextjs
  - https://tanstack.com/query/latest/docs/framework/react/guides/advanced-ssr#server-components-and-nextjs-app-router
- create unsplash dev account for third party images
  - https://unsplash.com/developers
